Welcome to using
FRotators in Unreal! A new type for you. By the end of the video
we will understand FRotators better, and we'll actually have a desired
roll, pitch, and yaw for the barrel, coming out of here, rather than
just some arbitrary world space coordinates. So let's see how that's done!
So, we've got our unit vectors being printed out. We know what direction
we want the barrel to head to. We better start getting some code that can actually move the barrel
now. So firstly, let's just go back to our AimAt method. Do a little bit
of a tidy up. So, thank you to Daniel who pointed out that the parameters after
LaunchSpeed, if you look here, HighArc is false,
CollisionRadius is 0, OverrideGravity is 0 are the defaults, so for those
three we actually don't need to put those parameters in. So,
I'm going to remove those three parameters from the TankAimingComponent's AimAt method,
just to make the code shorter. Less lines is always good. The other
thing we can do to make the code a little bit more readable and make it bit more explicit, what's going on here
is we can just move this into a bool. We can say bool
bHave
AimSolution because that's what we're talking about and that's what
we're actually doing. And all of this code here is about getting an
AimSolution, like so. So, bHaveAimSolution
is that. Then, we can bring all of this
in by one level of indentation, which makes life simpler again,
and then, that is the definition of our boolean. And then, we can just say if
(bHave AimSolution)... Oops, if I could
type straight, like so.
Then we go ahead and do this stuff. So apart from the fact I've got an extra closing bracket,
hopefully that makes more sense to you. So,
if we don't have a barrel we'll get out, we have an out parameter, we have a StartLocation,
so the StartLocation is used there. The out
parameter is used there. Then, the whole
result of that thing is, do we have a solution to the game? If yes, then let's
carry on. So how do we carry on? Well, what we're going to want to do here, rather than just logging out, is
we're going to want to MoveBarrel(). Ultimately that's going to both
elevate the barrel and rotate the turret, but for now, it's just going to move the barrel.
So, I'm going to suggest that you pseudocode
what this MoveBarrel method is going to do as your challenge. I want you to abstract at a
higher level than the actual code. That means that when you pseudocode, don't put one line
of comment for every line of code, you want to think a little bit higher than that. A line of
comment could lead to several lines of code. Use plain English
and have fun! It's just an exercise, there's no right or wrong. I want you to think through what the algorithm
of moving the barrel may be, just so you've thought ahead before I show you how I do it.
So go ahead, pause the video, and pseudocode MoveBarrel() right now.
So welcome back guys! Well, what I'm going to do is
actually write the MoveBarrle() signature, firstly, and then, I can pseudocode inside the
actual method. So, we're going to have something that's void, it's going to be move barrel. It's
part of the TankAimingComponent class, so let's prefix that there.
And then, we also need to declare that, of course,
in the header file. A bit of C++ noise, so let's go ahead and
do that right now. Now, it may be that this takes a parameter, but for now, let's
think about it without the parameter and then we can always add a
parameter in if we need to, so void MoveBarrel(); like that. It's private, a method from the outside
of the TankAimingComponent doesn't need authority to move the barrel at this
stage, although that may change later. So,
the main point is, here we want to know what we're going to do when we are asked to
move the barrel. Well actually I think we do need a parameter, for a start, because I think we need to take an AimDirection
in. So, we're going to move the barrel towards,
and that actually may be a better name, (FVector AimDirection).
So MoveBarrel towards, I'm going to rename too, just because I think that's going to be a
better name. I'm waiting for IntelliSense to finish its work.
OK so here we go, MoveBarrelTowards like so. Great!
So we're going to move the barrel towards a particular AimDirection. Let's just
pass that in here. And it missed the IntelliSense
for all its joy, missed this instance here. So, let's just check it also got the
header file. No, it's being completely useless,
so we shall do it manually. MoveBarrelTowards (FVector
AimDirection). Alright, so we have a method
that's going to move the barrel towards an AimDirection. What is that going to need to do? Well, it's going to need to " // Work-
out difference
between current
barrel rotation,
and AimDirectoin. And
then, it's going to need to "// Move the barrel
the right amount this frame"
"// Given a max elevation speed,
and the frame time". Because we want to be
frame rate independent. Alright, so that ultimately is what we're going to do. We're just going to
work out where the barrel's pointing, compared to where we're asking to point it, and then, just
decide how much we're going to move the barrel this frame. Now, we'll just do elevation for the moment, because we don't have a
reference to the turret yet, so we're just going to deal with the barrel for this one. While we're here,
let's get rid of BeginPlay() and Tick, just to lean this code down a little bit. Do the same in the header
file. The AimingComponent doesn't need BeginPlay() or Tick, so that will
make life simpler. As I say, the less we can have on the screen the easier this is to reason
about. While we're here let's talk about a TODO, which is " add
SetTurretReference
because we know we're going to need to do that later. As I say, for now, we're just going to move the barrel
towards a particular place.
OK, I'm just going to compile, because we've got a bit of a... Oops!
...a bit of a compilation error there, or a bit of an IntelliSense
complaint here. Well we did but actually it's gone already. But I'm going to compile anyway just
for safety, just to make sure that what we've got as a template is good to go before I
start writing code in it, and I'm pretty sure that this will compile
just fine. There it goes! OK, so now we're actually read to do the coding.
So, how do we work out the difference between the current barrel rotation and the
AimDirection. So, let's start by getting the barrel rotation. Now, if
any of you know about Quaternions, hold your horses, we'll talk about that in a future video. Let's show you the
problem with not using Quaternions first. So we're going to get the barrel's rotation like
this. We're going to get the GetForwardVector on the barrel, which is just a...
Well, let's take a look at the barrel really quickly and show you precisely what that is.
It is just he X direction vector, it is the direction that the barrel faces in.
That's the forward vector we're getting, straight down the barrel. And then from
that, we can turn that into a rotation so
that we can to .Rotation. Oops! Now, what is a rotation?
It is just a roll, pitch, and yaw in a single struct.
Let's just take a look at that, an FRotator.
With these types of things, if you've never seen the type before, type it into Google, take a
quick look. It'll tell you what it is in the documentation. Here it is!
It's a struct which contains roll, pitch, and yaw OK. So, this tells us
the roll, pitch, and yaw of the barrel, at the moment, which is going to
be pretty static, there's no point in us logging that out. Now, let's look at the
AimAs a Rotator.
While we're here let's be consistent, BarrelRotator. Aim
AsRotator. OK, so AimAsRotator is going to be the aim
direction, and you guessed it, we need to convert it into a rotation, so dot
Rotation(). Now we're welcome to have a quick look at that, the
AimAsRotator. Why don't we do that? Why don't we just make sure it's getting
through, that every frame once we've got a solution we send an AimDirection and we see what this rotator
looks like. So, UE_LOG out this thing.
Now, Warning, TEXT and then I'm going to come
and say ("AimAsRotator")).
And what is this thing?
It's a rotator, it's probably able to be converted to a string.
So we're going to go star, anticipating we're going to need that. AimAsRotator
.ToString()) method.
Getting everything in the right place. Let's try this and have a look and see what the
AimAsRotator actually comes out as. Of course, I need to compile for that to work!
Alright, so if we play... Here you go, you've got a roll, a pitch, and a yaw. Now, if it can't
find an aim solution it stops printing, but if it can find an aim solution,
then you can see here that it wants me to pitch. To hit that tank, for instance,
it wants me to pitch 8 degrees off the horizon. Your 5 degrees away
from straight forwards and not roll at all. It never wants us to roll. Now,
for this guy, it wants to pitch up quite high, or it depends how far I want to
go. If I go just over his head, you see it's pitching 65 degrees, but if I'm going to the tank it's 7 degree.
These look like feasible values, so that's good news! We've got a roll, pitch, and yaw
of the barrel that we're looking to get. So, what next? Well, we said
that we needed to work out the difference, I think that we just have to do one more line for that.
It's an auto DeltaRotator, which is the difference
in rotation, which is AimAsRotator minus
BarrelRotator;
There you go! And we could log that DeltaRotator, as well, if we wanted to,
and that would just tell us the difference. But that's a bit boring, I'm not going to go ahead and waste your time doing that.
So we've done that, we've worked out the difference between the current barrel rotation and the AimDirection. That's cool!
So, now what we need to do is to move the barrel the right amount this frame,
give it a max elevation speed and the frame
time. OK, well we don't have a max elevation speed right
now, so I think what we need to do is to think about
having a barrel class, so that we can put that information
on the barrel. We have an fbx, which is a static mesh, but I think we should make a static mesh based
C++ class that allows us to specify the parameters
of the barrel, so that we can then put things like maximum elevation speed
and possibly other things like the clamping of the elevation.
If you think about it, this tank's barrel can't move up and down as much as it likes. There's a limit
to how far down it can go, before it hits the tank, especially when it's facing backwards,
and there's a limit to how far up it can go without it looking stupid. So,
we need a few parameters inside the barrel, and I'd
rather put those at the barrel rather than levering them into this
class here, right now. So, we actually can't do this little bit yet,
because we need a max elevation speed that we don't
have. So, what I'll do in the next video is go ahead and create a barrel C++ class with you,
and we'll use that to put in barrel related properties, to keep all things
in the right place. So, see you there!